# Core concepts

## Annotations

An [**annotation**](./11.create-annotations.md) is basically an [ES8 decorators stage 1](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) without any actual behavior.
Its main purpose is to act as [**pointcuts**](#pointcut) for the [**weaver**](#weaver) to bind [**advices**](#advices) to. 

```js
import { AnnotationFactory } from '@aspectjs/core/commons';

const af = new AnnotationFactory('my-lib');
const MyAnnotation = af.create(...);

// Use the annotation.
@MyAnnotation('string', 0)
class SomeClass { }
```

> ![tip] Because annotations as no built-in behavior, they are lightweight to import and they are easy to reuse & repurpose 

## Aspects

An **Aspect** is a class annotated with the `@Aspect()` annotation.
You need an Aspect when you want to implement a cross-cutting concern, without copy-pasting the feature all over your code. 
The Aspect defines one or more [**advices**](#advices) methods that give some behavior to your AOP-enable code.

```js
import { Aspect, Before } from '@aspectjs/core/annotations'
import { on } from '@aspectjs/core/commons';

@Aspect('someId') // Optional id
class MyAspect {

    @Before(on.class.withAnnotations(MyAnnotation))
    beforeMyAnnotationClassAdvice(ctxt) {
        // advice code here...
    }
}
```

> ![info] An aspect by itself won't do anything unless it has been enabled. (see: [Weaver](#weaver))

## Pointcut

A pointcut describes a specific location within your code where you want an advice to be invoked.
```js
import { on } from '@aspectjs/core/commons';

@Before(on.class.withAnnotations(Annotation1, Annotation2, ...))
```

## Advices

An **advice** is a method of an **aspect**'s method, where you implement your cross-cutting feature.
That method will be automatically invoked each time some specific execution [**Poincut**](#pointcut) is reached in the application code.

There are 6 kind of advices: 
 - `@Compile` advices
 - `@Around` advices
 - `@Before` advices
 - `@AfterReturn` advices
 - `@AfterThrow` advices
 - `@After` advices
 
## Weaver

The **weaver** may be seen as some sort of runtime compiler
that interprets annotations and wire up the **advices** of each enabled **aspects** to their corresponding **pointcuts**.

[info]: ../../.README/picto/12px/info.png
[tip]: ../../.README/picto/12px/tip.png
