---
icon: info
---

# Motivations

Aspect-Oriented Programming (**AOP**) is a **programming paradigm** that enhances the modularization and **separation of concerns** of the code.

## <i class="fa fa-cubes"></i> Aspect Oriented Programming

With **programming paradims** like _Object Oriented Programming_, concerns such as logging, security, and transaction management are scattered throughout the codebase, leading to code duplication, tangled dependencies, and decreased maintainability. AOP addresses this problem by introducing a separate module called an "_aspect_" that encapsulates the **cross-cutting concerns**.

:::code-tabs
@tab without AOP

```js{}
class Foo {
  method1() {
    try { /* Code for method1 */ }
    catch (error) { this.logError(error); /* Logging error here */ }
  }
}

class Bar {
  method2() {
      try { /* Code for method2 */ }
      catch (error) { this.logError(error); /* Logging error here */ }
  }
}

class Baz {
  method3() {
    try { /* Code for method3 */ }
    catch (error) { this.logError(error); /* Logging error here */ }
  }
}
```

@tab with AOP

```js
class Foo {
  @LogErrors
  method1() {
    // Code for method1
  }
}

class Bar {
  @LogErrors
  method2() {
    // Code for method2
  }
}

class Baz {
  @LogErrors
  method3() {
    // Code for method3
  }
}
```

:::

## <i class="fab fa-java"></i> A lesson learned from Java

**AOP** has gained significant popularity in the _Java_ ecosystem, primarily due to frameworks like [AspectJ](https://www.eclipse.org/aspectj/), which have revolutionized the way we develop applications in Java.

AOP has played a pivotal role in shaping some of the most widely-used _Java_ frameworks, such as _Spring_ and _Hibernate_. By providing a consistent syntax and independent tooling, it has enabled the creation of reusable behaviors that can seamlessly integrate with different frameworks.

In contrast, JavaScript lacks this kind of interoperability, which often poses challenges when writing code that needs to be portable across various JavaScript environments, such as _React_, _Angular_, _Node.js_, and the browser.

In an attempt to fill this gap, I developed _AspectJS_ with the aim of bringing the power and flexibility of _AOP_ to the JavaScript ecosystem.

## <i class="fa fa-at"></i> More than ES decorators

Some JavaScript frameworks, such as [Angular](https://angular.io/), [Nest.js](https://nestjs.com/) or [TypeORM](https://github.com/typeorm/typeorm) already utilize [ECMAScript Decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) to enhance classes and methods with additional behavior, similar to the capabilities of Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP). However, it is important to acknowledge that ES decorators have certain limitations:

- They are hard to write due to their complex syntax
- They encapsulate behavior within themselves, which limits their extensibility and portability across different platforms

_ECMAScript decorators_ look like _Java_ annotations. However, _Java_ annotations are just interfaces while _ECMAScript decorators_ come with their own implementation.

_AspectJS_ introduces the concept of annotations for Javascript. Simply put, an _AspectJS annotation_ is an _ECMAScript decorator_ with no implementation. The actual behavihour is added later through the introduction of _Aspects_.

##
