---
icon: lightbulb
category:
  - Guide
tag:
  - installation
---

# Getting started

## <i class="fa fa-download"></i> Installation

:::code-tabs
@tab npm

```bash
npm i @aspectjs/common @aspectjs/core
```

@tab yarn

```bash
yarn add @aspectjs/common @aspectjs/core
```

:::

## <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> Configuration

AspectJS is based on the [tc39 experimental decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators). As such, you have to enable support for decorators in your `tsconfig.json`:
:::code-tabs
@tab tsconfig.json

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "experimentalDecorators": true
  }
}
```

:::

## Core concepts

### <i class="fa fa-at"></i> Annotations

The purpose of Annotations in _AOP_ is to mark or identify specific elements (classes, methods, fields, etc.) in the codebase to which aspects should be applied.

> **info** Annotations are basically a ECMAScript decorators with no behavior.

Annotations can be created with the help of the [AnnotationFactory](../api/classes/common.AnnotationFactory.md).

:::code-tabs

@tab log-errors.annotation.ts

```ts
// Create an annotation
export const LogErrors = new AnnotationFactory('demo').create(
  function LogErrors() {},
);
```

:::

Annotations can be applied to various elements in JavaScript, including **classes**, **methods**, **fields**, and **parameters**, allowing specific sections of code to be marked for enhancement with additional behavior.

```js
class Foo {
  @LogErrors()
  method1() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

In essence, annotations serve as [_pointcuts_](#pointcuts) that direct the [_weaver_](#weaver) to weave the corresponding [_aspects_](#aspect).

Each annotation has a unique [reference (AnnotationRef)](../api/classes/common.AnnotationRef.md), composed of:

- A name.
- A [group id](../api/classes/common.AnnotationFactory.md#groupid). It identifies your organization and avoids your annotations to collide with others that have the same name.

The annotation reference is used by the weaver to identify and apply the appropriate aspects.

### <i class="fa fa-cube"></i> Aspect

An aspect is a class annotated with the [`@Aspect()` annotation](../api/modules/core.md#aspect), that contains **reusable code** in the form of methods called "[**advices**](#advices)". It is used to encapsulate **cross-cutting concerns** in a single place.
:::code-tabs

```js
@Aspect()
class Foo {
  @BarAnnotation()
  method1() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::

### <i class="fa fa-cubes"></i> Advices

An advice defines actions, and will be automatically calle at specific points in the program, known as "**join points**." Join points can include method invocations, variable accesses, or even exceptions.

### <i class="fa-solid fa-scissors"></i> Pointcuts

TODO: write documentation

### <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> Weaver

TODO: write documentation
