---
icon: cog
category:
  - Guide
tag:
  - installation
---

# Core concepts

## <i class="fa fa-at"></i> Annotations

The purpose of Annotations in _AOP_ is to mark or identify specific elements (classes, methods, fields, etc.) in the codebase to which aspects should be applied.

> **info** Annotations are basically a ECMAScript decorators with no behavior.

### Create an annotation

Annotations can be created with the help of the [AnnotationFactory](../api/classes/common.AnnotationFactory.md).

:::code-tabs

@tab log-errors.annotation.ts

```ts
import { AnnotationFactory } from '@aspectjs/common';

// Create an annotation
export const LogErrors = new AnnotationFactory('demo').create(
  function LogErrors() {},
);
```

:::

> **info** Each annotation has a unique [`ref` attribute](../api/classes/common.AnnotationRef.md) composed of:
>
> - A name.
> - A [group id](../api/classes/common.AnnotationFactory.md#groupid), which identifies your organization and avoids your annotations to collide with others that have the same name.

### Apply an annotation

Annotations can be applied to various elements in JavaScript, including **classes**, **methods**, **fields**, and **parameters**, allowing specific sections of code to be marked for enhancement with additional behavior.

```ts
class Foo {
  @LogErrors()
  method1() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

In essence, annotations serve as [_pointcuts_](#pointcuts) that direct the [_weaver_](#weaver) to weave the corresponding [_aspects_](#aspect).

The annotation reference [(AnnotationRef)](../api/classes/common.AnnotationRef.md) is used by the weaver to identify and apply the appropriate aspects.

## <i class="fa fa-cube"></i> Aspect

An aspect is a class annotated with the [`@Aspect()` annotation](../api/modules/core.md#aspect), that contains **reusable code** in the form of methods called "[**advices**](#advices)". It is used to encapsulate **cross-cutting concerns** in a single place.
:::code-tabs
@tab log-errors.aspect.ts

```ts
@Aspect()
class LogErrorsAspect {
  adviceMethod() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::

## <i class="fa fa-cubes"></i> Advice

_Advices_ are the methods of an _Aspect_ that are annotated to stop at specific points in the program, known as ["**pointcuts**"](#pointcuts). Join points can include method invocations, variable accesses, or even exceptions

:::code-tabs
@tab log-errors.aspect.ts

```ts
import { AfterThrow, AfterThrowContext, Aspect, on } from '@aspectjs/core';

@Aspect()
export class LogErrorsAspect {
  @AfterThrow(
    on.classes.withAnnotations(LogErrors),
    on.methods.withAnnotations(LogErrors),
  )
  logAround(context: AfterThrowContext, error: Error) {
    console.error(
      `${context.target}(${context.args.join(',')}) throwed error ${error}`,
    );
    // Propagate the error
    throw error;
  }
}
```

:::

## <i class="fa-solid fa-scissors"></i> Pointcuts

In AOP, A _pointcut_ is a set of join points where the advice defined in an aspect will be applied.
AspectJS supports the following _pointcut_ types:

- [`@Before`](../api/modules/core.html#before): runs the advice before the _pointcut_.
- [`@Around`](../api/modules/core.html#around): wraps the advice around the _pointcut_, allowing you to execute custom code before and after the join point.
- [`@AfterReturn`](../api/modules/core.html#afterreturn): runs the advice after the _pointcut_ successfully completes without any exceptions.
- [`@AfterThrow`](../api/modules/core.html#afterthrow): runs the advice after the _pointcut_ throws an exception.
- [`@After`](../api/modules/core.html#after): runs the advice after the pointcut returns or throws.

## <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> Weaver

The [weaver](../10.intro/10.abstract.md#weaver) is the component in AOP that combines aspects with the codebase by applying the _advices_ at specific points in the program's execution.
For an aspect to take effect, it has to be enabled.

:::code-tabs
@tab aop.ts

```ts
import { getWeaver } from '@aspectjs/core';

getWeaver().enable(new LogErrorsAspect());
```

:::
