# Abstract

## Motivations

## Aspect Oriented Programming

Aspect-Oriented Programming (**AOP**) is a **programming paradigm** that enhances the modularization and **separation of concerns** of the code.

With **programming paradims** like _Object Oriented Programming_, concerns such as logging, security, and transaction management are scattered throughout the codebase, leading to code duplication, tangled dependencies, and decreased maintainability. AOP addresses this problem by introducing a separate module called an "_aspect_" that encapsulates the **cross-cutting concerns**.

:::code-tabs
@tab without AOP

```js
class Foo {
  method1() {
    try {
      // Code for method1
    } catch (error) {
      this.logError(error); // Logging error here
    }
  }
}

class Bar {
  method2() {
    try {
      // Code for method2
    } catch (error) {
      this.logError(error); // Logging error here
    }
  }
}

class Baz {
  method3() {
    try {
      // Code for method3
    } catch (error) {
      this.logError(error); // Logging error here
    }
  }
}
```

@tab with AOP

```js
class Foo {
  @LogErrors
  method1() {
    // Code for method1
  }
}

class Bar {
  @LogErrors
  method2() {
    // Code for method2
  }
}

class Baz {
  @LogErrors
  method3() {
    // Code for method3
  }
}
```

:::

## Core concepts

#### <i class="fa fa-at"></i> Annotations

The purpose of annotations in AOP is to mark or identify specific elements (classes, methods, fields, etc.) in the codebase to which aspects should be applied.

```js
class Foo {
  @BarAnnotation()
  method1() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

They serve as [**pointcuts**](#pointcut) to guide the [**weaver**](#weaver) to weave the corresponding [aspect](#aspect)'s behavior into the annotated elements at the appropriate [join points](#join-point).

## <i class="fa fa-cube"></i> Aspect

An aspect is a class annotated with the `@Aspect()` annotation, that contains **reusable code** in the form of methods called "[**advices**](#advices)". It is used to encapsulate **cross-cutting concerns** in a single place.
:::code-tabs

```js
@Aspect()
class Foo {
  @BarAnnotation()
  method1() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::

## <i class="fa fa-cubes"></i> Advices

An advice defines actions, and will be automatically calle at specific points in the program, known as "**join points**." Join points can include method invocations, variable accesses, or even exceptions.

The purpose of an aspect in AOP is to encapsulate and modularize cross-cutting concerns. Aspects define reusable code snippets called advice that specify the behavior to be applied at specific join points in the program's execution flow. By separating cross-cutting concerns into aspects, AOP promotes code modularity, improves maintainability, and allows for centralized management of common functionalities across the codebase.

AOP provides a powerful set of abstractions and mechanisms to define and apply aspects to an application. These mechanisms include "pointcuts," which specify the join points where the advice should be applied, and "weaving," which is the process of combining the aspect's advice with the base code at compile-time, load-time, or runtime.

AspectJS is a JavaScript framework that brings the benefits of AOP to JavaScript applications. It allows developers to define aspects, advices, and pointcuts.

In this documentation, we will explore the key concepts and features of AspectJS, providing examples and guidelines to help you leverage the power of AOP in your JavaScript projects.
