# `@Cacheable` annotation

Through a set of `MemoMarshaller`, the default `MemoAspect` has built-in support 
for most common types: `number`, `string`, `Promise`, `Object`, `Date`, ...

`MemoAspect` stores the signature of memoized types, in order to be able to restore a cached value with its proper type.
Have your custom classes annotated with `@Cacheable()` let `MemoAspect` know
about your custom types, and turn them *memoizable*.

> ![info] A `@Memo()` enabled method that returns a class will throw an error unless the class have the `@Cacheable()` annotation.

```typescript
import { Cacheable, Memo } from '@aspectjs/memo';

@Cacheable()
class MyCustomClass {}

class MyMemoizedClass {
    @Memo()
    getCustomClass() {
        return new MyCustomClass();
    }
}
```

> ![tip] `@Cacheable()` computes a hash of the annotated class. 
> This way, changing the implementation of a @`@Cacheable` type automatically invalidates cached values with the old implementation.

> ![tip] You can also add support to other types by registering your custom `MemoMarshaller`.

## `CacheableOptions`
The `@Cacheable` annotation accepts an attribute of type `CacheableOptions`:

```typescript
export interface CacheableOptions {
    /** Identifies the type of object to be cached. If not provided, a typeId should is generated automatically **/
    typeId?: string;
    /** Any entry of the @Cacheable object with a different version is evicted from the cache. **/
    version?: string | number | (() => string | number);
}
```

- Use `typdId` to specify the type signature of your annotated class. 
  In this case, it is strongly recommended to set `version` parameter as well.  
- Use `version` to set a version for the cached data. When some changes in the implementation of `@Cacheable` lead to breaking changes, 
  you can change this version to invalidate any obsolete cached data.  

[info]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/info.png
[tip]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/success.png
[danger]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/danger.png
[pipeline]: ../../../../packages/memo/.README/memo-pipeline.png

