# Memo Drivers

## Memo drivers

`MemoAspect` needs to store the memoized data into some storage API. 
The `MemoDriver` are the part of the *Memo Pipeline*,
that provide a standardized API to actually store both sync and async data.

![pipeline]

The driver interface itself is not tight to any storage API, and it requires a concrete implementation. 
At the moment, the following drivers are available:

- ### `LsMemoDriver`

Stores data into the [`localStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage).
Accepts a custom `localStorage` implementation (eg: polyfills for NodeJS), as well as a serializer.
By default, it is configured to use `LzMemoSerializer` that compresses data with a compression algorithm 
based on [lz-string](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lz-string) before storage.

- ### `IdbMemoDriver`

Stores data into the [`indexedDb`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/IndexedDB_API). 
Accepts a custom `indexedDb` implementation (eg: polyfills for NodeJS).

> ![danger] IndexedDb is async only. Because of this, `IdbMemoDriver` cannot be used to store non-async types, 
> and `@Memo()` will automatically privilege other drivers.  

> ![info] Because the data type must be known with no delay, 
> some parts of the `MemoFrame` are stored synchronously with `LsMemoDriver` under the hood.

## MemoMarshaller

A value stored by `MemoAspect` gets serialized and loose its type (eg: a `Date` stored into `localStorage` is stored into a string).
Before serialization to occur, the object gets *marshalled* into a `MemoFrame` that retain the value along with its intrinsic type.
This transformation is has to be type-specific, and is done by a `MemoMarshaller`.
The following marshallers are supported out of the box:
 - **basic types** (`number`, `boolean`, `null`, ...)
 - **arrays**
 - **dates**
 - **promises**
 - **objects**
 - **cacheable objects**, that handles classes annotated with `@Cacheable`

If you store an object and none of the configured marshaller is applicable, the driver will throw an error.


[info]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/info.png
[tip]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/success.png
[danger]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/danger.png
[pipeline]: ../../../../packages/memo/.README/memo-pipeline.png

