# Adding support for more *memoizable* types

A value stored by `MemoAspect` gets serialized and loose its type (eg: a `Date` stored into `localStorage` is stored into a string).
Because of that, any memoized object should be *marshalled* beforehand into a `MemoFrame`, 
a flat structure that keeps both the value along with its intrinsic type.
A `MemoMarshaller` can perform this transformation on any arbitrary type, be it synchronous or asynchronous, 
and adding more `MemoMarshaller` adds support for more types.

`MemoAspect` comes with a bunch of standards marshallers out of the box for the following types:
 - **basic types** (`number`, `boolean`, `null`, ...)
 - **arrays**
 - **dates**
 - **promises**
 - **objects**
 - **cacheable objects**, that handles any class annotated with `@Cacheable()`

> ![warning] If you store an object that none of the configured marshaller can handle, the driver will throw an error like this:
> ```
> Type "X" is not annotated with "@Cacheable". Please add "@Cacheable" on class "X", or register a proper MemoMarshaller for this type.
> ```

If you use some data types that are not supported or behave inconsistently, 
chances are you need to add the proper `MemoMarshaller` or write your own.

## Writing a `MemoMarshaller`

A `MemoMarshaller` is a class that offers the conversion from `T` to `MemoFrame<T>` and vice versa.
Let's use the built-in `PromiseMarshaller` as an example:

```typescript
export class PromiseMarshaller extends MemoMarshaller<Promise<any>, any> {
    readonly types = 'Promise';

    marshal(
        frame: MemoFrame<Promise<unknown>>,
        context: MarshallingContext,
        defaultMarshal: MarshalFn,
    ): MemoFrame<Promise<any>> {
        frame.setAsyncValue(frame.value.then((v) => defaultMarshal(v)));
        return frame;
    }

    unmarshal(
        frame: MemoFrame<MemoFrame<any>>,
        context: UnmarshallingContext,
        defaultUnmarshal: UnmarshalFn,
    ): Promise<any> {
        if (frame.isAsync()) {
            return frame.async.then((v) => {
                return defaultUnmarshal(v);
            });
        } else {
            return Promise.resolve(defaultUnmarshal(frame.value));
        }
    }
}
```
- `PromiseMarshaller`
    - defines `types` = `Promise` to be picked up when `T` instanceof `Promise`
    > ![info] Types can be a string or a string array. The value(s) of `types` are checked against `instanceof` the `typeof`.
- `marshal()` method prepares a `MemoFrame<T>` for entering into the cache: 
    - receive `frame` as a parameter, that is the `MemoFrame` being built so far.
    - wait for the resolution of `frame.value` (which is a promise)
    - calls default marshaller for the resolved value `X`, which in turn creates a `MemoFrame<X>` 
    - calls `frame.setAsyncValue` with the marshalled result
    > ![info] `MemoFrame.setAsyncValue(...)` allows `MemoAspect` to wait the the value to be resolved before attempting the serialization.
- `unmarshal()` inflates `T` out of a previously marshalled `MemoFrame<T>`: 
    - receive `frame` as a parameter, that is the `MemoFrame` got out of the cache. 
    Based on the `MemoDriver` implementation, this frame may be sync or async.
    The latter one needs to wait for the value completion with `frame.async`.
    - calls `defaultUnmarshal` to unmarshal the resolved value
    - in any case, return a promise resolved with the unmarshalled value.

## Adding Marshallers


## Extra marshallers

- `ObservableMemoSupportAspect`
Registers an `ObservaleMemoMarshaller` to add support for **rxjs** & `Observable`.

```typescript
import { ObservableMemoSupportAspect } from '@aspectjs/memo/support/observables';
import {WEAVER_CONTEXT} from "@aspectjs/core";

WEAVER_CONTEXT.getWeaver().enable(new ObservableMemoSupportAspect());
```
> ![info] `import '@aspectjs/memo/support/observables/register'` works as well.

[info]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/info.png
[tip]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/success.png
[danger]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/danger.png
[warning]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/warning.png
[error]: ../../../../.README/picto/12px/error.png

